feat(bil): cost manager (#2973)
scaleway/docs-content: console/billing/how-to/use-the-cost-manager.mdx

- [Owner](/identity-and-access-management/iam/concepts/#owner) status or [IAM permissions](/identity-and-access-management/iam/concepts/#permission) allowing you to perform actions in the intended Organization

1. Click **Billing** in the Organization drop-down menu to go to the **Billing Overview** page.
    <Message type="tip">
      Alternatively, you can reach the [billing page](https://console.scaleway.com/billing/overview) from your [Organization Dashboard](https://console.scaleway.com/organization) by clicking **Go to Billing** above the **Current consumption** area.
    </Message>
2. Click the **Consumption** tab.
3. Scroll to **Cost Manager**.

    An overview of your Organization's consumption is displayed.

4. Filter the data by selecting the different categories in the drop-down, then clicking **Filter**.

    You can filter by:
      - **Period** - Currently you can filter by year.
      - **Category** - The product category (e.g. Compute, Storage, Containers).
          <Message type="note">
            If you are filtering by Product, you must first select the Product Category.
          </Message>

>       - **Product** - The product itself. The consumption shown is the sum of all your products of the same type. For example, if you select **Instances**, the consumption chart will display the value referring to all Instances in your selected project. Each product corresponds to a different color in the consumption chart and in the detailed list.

Reviewer: Each **category** corresponds to a different color in the consumption chart and in the detailed list.

      - **Project** - One or all projects in your Organization. Leave empty to select all at once.

      <Lightbox src="/assets/scaleway-billing-consumption-chart.webp" alt="picture of a chart showing the 2023 consumption of products in the 'managed databases' category in the Scaleway console."/>

> 5. Scroll the page to see a detailed list of your resource consumption based on your filter selection.

Reviewer: Ici peut etre ajouter une mention pour preciser que le montant affiché est la sommes totales consommées hors taxe sur la periode

---
meta:
  title: How to use the billing cost manager
content:
  h1: How to use the billing cost manager
  paragraph: This page explains how to use the billing cost manager
tags: billing budget cost-manager
dates:
  validation: 2024-03-26
  posted: 2024-03-26
categories:
  - billing
---

> The Scaleway cost manager is a comprehensive tool to monitor and analyze cloud resource consumption and costs. It offers a clear and detailed view of consumption data, enabling you to accurately reconcile costs for re-invoicing purposes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Scaleway cost manager is a comprehensive tool to monitor and analyze cloud resource consumption and costs. It offers a clear and detailed view of consumption data, enabling you to accurately consolidate consumption for re-invoicing purposes.
```

<Macro id="requirements" />

- A Scaleway account logged into the [console](https://console.scaleway.com)
- [Owner](/identity-and-access-management/iam/concepts/#owner) status or [IAM permissions](/identity-and-access-management/iam/concepts/#permission) allowing you to perform actions in the intended Organization

1. Click **Billing** in the Organization drop-down menu to go to the **Billing Overview** page.
    <Message type="tip">
      Alternatively, you can reach the [billing page](https://console.scaleway.com/billing/overview) from your [Organization Dashboard](https://console.scaleway.com/organization) by clicking **Go to Billing** above the **Current consumption** area.
    </Message>
2. Click the **Consumption** tab.
3. Scroll to **Cost Manager**.

>     An overview of your Organization's consumption is displayed.

Reviewer 3: displays? not sure

> 4. Filter the data by selecting the different categories in the drop-down, then clicking **Filter**.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
4. Filter the data by selecting the different categories in the drop-down, then click **Filter**.
```

    You can filter by:
      - **Period** - Currently you can filter by year.
      - **Category** - The product category (e.g. Compute, Storage, Containers).
          <Message type="note">
            If you are filtering by Product, you must first select the Product Category.

>           </Message>

Reviewer 2: duplicate

>       - **Product** - The product itself. The consumption shown is the sum of all your products of the same type. For example, if you select **Instances**, the consumption chart will display the value referring to all Instances in your selected project.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
      - **Product** - The product itself. The consumption shown is the sum of all your products of the same type. For example, if you select **Instances**, the consumption chart will display the value referring to all Instances in your selected Project.
```

>       - **Project** - One or all projects in your Organization. Leave empty to select all at once.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
      - **Project** - One or all Projects in your Organization. Leave empty to select all at once.
```

      <Lightbox src="/assets/scaleway-billing-consumption-chart.webp" alt="picture of a chart showing the 2023 consumption of products in the 'managed databases' category in the Scaleway console."/>

5. Scroll the page to see a detailed list of your resource consumption based on your filter selection.
      <Message type="important">
        The amount displayed is the total amount consumed over the period excluding tax, and including any discounts related to vouchers.
      </Message>

      <Lightbox src="/assets/scaleway-billing-consumption-list.webp" alt="picture of a list detailing 2023 consumption of products in the 'managed databases' category in the Scaleway console. The list includes the category, product, project, and cost in euros"/>

>       You can click **Reset** to empty your selection and start over.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
      You can click **Reset** to clear all filter, and start over.
```
